Pyber Ridesharing Company
Background
The ride sharing bonanza continues! Seeing the success of notable players like Uber and Lyft, you've decided to join a fledgling ride sharing company of your own. In your latest capacity, you'll be acting as Chief Data Strategist for the company. In this role, you'll be expected to offer data-backed guidance on new opportunities for market differentiation.
You've since been given access to the company's complete record set of rides. This contains information about every active driver and historic ride, including details like city, driver count, individual fares, and city type.
________________________________________
Observable Trends
Pyber operates in urban, suburban and rural areas; however, the market share in the three areas is unequal. That means that the average fare, number of rides and drivers available will vary by each developed environment.
•	There is an evident correlation between the number of rides and average fare. Urban cities have lower average fare with the higher number of rides. Given the data provided, the implication1 is that urban drivers may have more competition and their fares are lower, rural and suburban drivers may have less competition and can charge higher fares. The bubble plot below shows that relationship as well as the allocation of drivers per city. The insight that we can gain from this information is that there are cities with a high demand for rides but a disproportionately small number of Pyber drivers to meet demand. It’s suggested that Pyber addresses this imbalance as the ridesharing demand is present, but Pyber’s presence in those cities is not large enough. This will result in more fares collected in revenue as riders and will prevent customers from seeking competitor taxi services.
•	The pie chart supports increasing drivers in cities with high demand to increase total profits  “% of Total Fares by City Type”. While the average fare is smaller in urban cities, the quantity of rides is large enough to account for 62.7% of the total fares.
•	The total number of rides is proportionately related to the total fares in urban, rural or suburban cities. The next step would be to increase Pyber’s presence in the suburban cities with high demand.
 We need more ride duration information about distance traveled. Urban customers ride shorter distances compared to suburban with more frequency, rural drivers travel long distances with less frequency with highest average fares. Maybe adopt the dynamic pricing rule during high demand periods. This can help increase revenues.
